1. Redox Biol. 2022 Oct;56:102469. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2022.102469. Epub 2022
Sep  11.

MPST deficiency promotes intestinal epithelial cell apoptosis and aggravates 
inflammatory bowel disease via AKT.

Zhang J(1), Cen L(1), Zhang X(1), Tang C(1), Chen Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Yu M(1), Lu 
C(1), Li M(1), Li S(1), Lin B(1), Zhang T(1), Song X(1), Yu C(2), Wu H(3), Shen 
Z(4).

Author information:
(1)The Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310003, China.
(2)The Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310003, China. Electronic address: 
zyyyych@zju.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: wu.hao@zs-hospital.sh.cn.
(4)The Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310003, China. Electronic address: 
sz8239@zju.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Excessive inflammatory responses and oxidative stress are 
considered the main characteristics of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 
Endogenous hydrogen sulfide (H2S) has been reported to show anti-inflammatory 
activity in IBD. The main aim of this study was to explore the role of 
3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (MPST), a key enzyme that regulates 
endogenous H2S biosynthesis, in IBD.
METHODS: Colonic MPST expression was evaluated in mice and patients with IBD. 
Various approaches were used to explore the concrete mechanism underlying MPST 
regulation of the progression of colitis through in vivo and in vitro models.
RESULTS: MPST expression was markedly decreased in colonic samples from patients 
with ulcerative colitis (UC) or Crohn's disease (CD) and from mice treated with 
DSS. MPST deficiency significantly aggravated the symptoms of murine colitis, 
exacerbated inflammatory responses and apoptosis, and inhibited epithelium stem 
cell-derived organoid formation in an H2S-independent manner. Consistently, when 
HT29 cells were treated with TNF-α, inhibition of MPST significantly increased 
the expression of proinflammatory cytokines, the amount of ROS and the 
prevalence of apoptosis, whereas overexpression of MPST markedly improved these 
effects. RNA-seq analysis showed that MPST might play a role in regulating 
apoptosis through AKT signaling. Mechanistically, MPST directly interacted with 
AKT and reduced the phosphorylation of AKT. Additionally, MPST expression was 
positively correlated with AKT expression in human IBD samples. In addition, 
overexpression of AKT rescued IEC apoptosis caused by MPST deficiency, while 
inhibition of AKT significantly aggravated it.
CONCLUSIONS: MPST protects the intestines from inflammation most likely by 
regulating the AKT/apoptosis axis in IECs. Our results may provide a novel 
therapeutic strategy for the treatment of colitis.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2022.102469
PMCID: PMC9486620
PMID: 36126419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflicts of interest with the contents of this 
article.