1. Int J Biol Sci. 2018 Jan 11;14(1):69-77. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.22259. eCollection 
2018.

Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Activation Modulates Intestinal Epithelial Barrier 
Function by Maintaining Tight Junction Integrity.

Yu M(1), Wang Q(1), Ma Y(1), Li L(1), Yu K(1), Zhang Z(1), Chen G(1), Li X(1), 
Xiao W(1), Xu P(2), Yang H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Xinqiao Hospital, Third Military Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, the Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Kunming Medical University, Kunming, China.

Activation of Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is involved in the control of 
intestinal mucosal homeostasis. Intestinal barrier dysfunction contributes to 
the development of many intestinal diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease 
(IBD). In this study, we investigated the mechanisms of AhR activation in the 
maintenance of intestinal barrier function. Adult C57BL/6 mice were treated with 
dextran sulphate sodium (DSS) for 7 days, with or without 
6-Formylindolo(3,2-b)carbazole (FICZ), a ligand of AhR. We found that AhR 
activation by FICZ attenuated the decreased TJ protein expression in the colonic 
mucosa of the DSS-induced mice. Further, the increase of both MLC 
phosphorylation and MLCK expression in the mice with DSS-induced colitis was 
also significantly inhibited by FICZ induced AhR activation. For in vitro 
experiments, Caco-2 cells were treated with tumour necrosis factor alpha 
(TNF-α)/interferon gamma (IFN-γ) for 48 h, with or without FICZ. AhR activation 
prevented TNF-α/IFN-γ-induced decrease in TER and morphological disruption of 
the TJs in Caco-2 monolayers. It also inhibited TNF-α/IFN-γ-induced increase in 
MLCK expression and MLC phosphorylation by suppression of NF-κB p65 signaling 
pathway. Thus, AhR-activating factors might have potential as therapeutic agents 
for the treatment of patients with IBD.

DOI: 10.7150/ijbs.22259
PMCID: PMC5821050
PMID: 29483826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.