1. F1000Res. 2019 Jan 28;8:F1000 Faculty Rev-111. doi: 
10.12688/f1000research.17023.1. eCollection 2019.

Tumour necrosis factor signalling in health and disease.

Holbrook J(1)(2)(3), Lara-Reyna S(1)(2)(3), Jarosz-Griffiths H(1)(2)(3), 
McDermott M(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Leeds Institute of Rheumatic and Musculoskeletal Medicine (LIRMM), Leeds, UK.
(2)Leeds Institute of Medical Research at St. James's, Leeds, UK.
(3)Leeds Cystic Fibrosis Trust Strategic Research Centre, Leeds, UK.

The master pro-inflammatory cytokine, tumour necrosis factor (TNF), has been 
shown to modulate multiple signalling pathways, with wide-ranging downstream 
effects. TNF plays a vital role in the typical immune response through the 
regulation of a number of pathways encompassing an immediate inflammatory 
reaction with significant innate immune involvement as well as cellular 
activation with subsequent proliferation and programmed cell death or necrosis. 
As might be expected with such a broad spectrum of cellular effects and complex 
signalling pathways, TNF has also been implicated in a number of disease states, 
such as rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, and Crohn's disease. Since 
the time of its discovery over 40 years ago, TNF ligand and its receptors, TNF 
receptor (TNFR) 1 and 2, have been categorised into two complementary 
superfamilies, namely TNF (TNFSF) and TNFR (TNFRSF), and 19 ligands and 29 
receptors have been identified to date. There have been significant advances in 
our understanding of TNF signalling pathways in the last decade, and this short 
review aims to elucidate some of the most recent advances involving TNF 
signalling in health and disease.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.17023.1
PMCID: PMC6352924
PMID: 30755793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.No 
competing interests were disclosed.No competing interests were disclosed.