1. Gut. 2020 Jun;69(6):1053-1063. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2019-318264. Epub 2019 Sep 
10.

Anti-TNF therapy in IBD exerts its therapeutic effect through macrophage IL-10 
signalling.

Koelink PJ(#)(1), Bloemendaal FM(#)(2)(3), Li B(4), Westera L(2), Vogels EWM(2), 
van Roest M(2), Gloudemans AK(5), van 't Wout AB(5), Korf H(6), Vermeire S(6), 
Te Velde AA(2), Ponsioen CY(7), D'Haens GR(7), Verbeek JS(8), Geiger TL(4), 
Wildenberg ME(2)(7), van den Brink GR(2)(7)(9).

Author information:
(1)Tytgat Insitute for Liver & Intestinal Research, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands p.j.koelink@amc.nl.
(2)Tytgat Insitute for Liver & Intestinal Research, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and hepatology, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Pathology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, 
Tennessee, USA.
(5)Janssen Prevention Center of Janssen Vaccines & Prevention BV, Janssen 
Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(6)Translational Research Center for Gastrointestinal Disorders (TARGID), 
Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(7)Gastroenterology & Hepatology, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Human Genetics, Leids Universitair Medisch Centrum, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(9)Roche Innovation Center Basel, F Hoffmann-La Roche AG, Basel, Switzerland.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: Macrophage interleukin (IL)-10 signalling plays a critical role in 
the maintenance of a regulatory phenotype that prevents the development of IBD. 
We have previously found that anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF) monoclonal 
antibodies act through Fcγ-receptor (FcγR) signalling to promote repolarisation 
of proinflammatory intestinal macrophages to a CD206+ regulatory phenotype. The 
role of IL-10 in anti-TNF-induced macrophage repolarisation has not been 
examined.
DESIGN: We used human peripheral blood monocytes and mouse bone marrow-derived 
macrophages to study IL-10 production and CD206+ regulatory macrophage 
differentiation. To determine whether the efficacy of anti-TNF was dependent on 
IL-10 signalling in vivo and in which cell type, we used the CD4+CD45Rbhigh 
T-cell transfer model in combination with several genetic mouse models.
RESULTS: Anti-TNF therapy increased macrophage IL-10 production in an 
FcγR-dependent manner, which caused differentiation of macrophages to a more 
regulatory CD206+ phenotype in vitro. Pharmacological blockade of IL-10 
signalling prevented the induction of these CD206+ regulatory macrophages and 
diminished the therapeutic efficacy of anti-TNF therapy in the CD4+CD45Rbhigh 
T-cell transfer model of IBD. Using cell type-specific IL-10 receptor mutant 
mice, we found that IL-10 signalling in macrophages but not T cells was critical 
for the induction of CD206+ regulatory macrophages and therapeutic response to 
anti-TNF.
CONCLUSION: The therapeutic efficacy of anti-TNF in resolving intestinal 
inflammation is critically dependent on IL-10 signalling in macrophages.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2019-318264
PMCID: PMC7282553
PMID: 31506328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: AKG and ABvtW are employees 
of Janssen Vaccines and Prevention B.V. GRvdB is currently an employee of Roche. 
CYP received research support from Takeda, speaker’s fees from Takeda, Abbvie 
and Dr. Falk Pharma, and consultancy fee from Takeda outside this work. Other 
authors declare no conflict of interest related to this work.